# Datasets Selected

- [California Daily Fire Growth Dataset](https://zenodo.org/records/6621450): The California daily fire growth database (2012-2018) presents daily fire expansion and rate-of-spread for all mayor fires over the time period 2012-2018. The database is contracted based on VIIRS active fire detections using a novel algorithm to quantify fire expansion and spread. The database will be update regularly when new data or a new algorithm are available. Please contact the author regarding any problems, errors or suggestions. The dataset will be made publicly available after acceptance of the relevant manuscript. 
> [!IMPORTANT]
> File names include the fire name (as extracted from FRAP), with each file including only information of one individual fire. The dataset includes two files for each fire, one with the daily fire extent as a polygon (\*_growth.shp) and one with the daily active fire detections on the fire line for each day as points, which include information regarding rate-of-spread (\*_ros.shp). Date and time are given in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) and ignition cause is extracted from FRAP.

- [Fire Parameters](https://www.fire.ca.gov/what-we-do/fire-resource-assessment-program): The Fire and Resource Assessment Program (FRAP) provides high-quality spatial data, maps, and on-line data viewers which provide critical information on the health and risk factors associated with forest and rangelands within the State of California.
- [Climate Dataset](https://www.climatologylab.org/gridmet.html): gridMET is a dataset of daily high-spatial resolution (~4-km, 1/24th degree) surface meteorological data covering the contiguous US from 1979-yesterday. We have also extended these data to cover southern British Columbia in our real time products. These data can provide important inputs for ecological, agricultural, and hydrological models. These data are updated daily.  gridMET is the preferred naming convention for these data; however, the data are also known as cited as METDATA.
